Let's bring in now
this is General Wesley Clark,
former NATO's
NATO's supreme allied commander
and CNN military analyst.
General, good to have you.
I just want to first start
before I ask you a question.
We've just got an update from Israeli
officials on the number of hostages
they believe
are still being held by Hamas.
That number is 201.
They they know that this is inconsistent
with the number that has happened before.
But these numbers,
as you know,
and our viewers can understand, fluctuate
based on information coming in
so that Israel
now believes there are 201 hostages
taken October 7th who are still in Gaza.
Let me ask you about the strategy
moving forward
and what the military is gaining
and losing during this period.
The surveillance drones for a
period are not flying over Gaza.
They're not bombing the tunnels
as they have been for seven weeks.
At the end of this truce,
is it a net gain or loss
as it relates to that mission
of ending Hamas?
They'll lose potentially
some intelligence
but gain some from the hostages.
What do you see
we get at the end of this?
From the Israeli perspective.
I think from the military perspective
in Israel, it's a it's a net loss.
And military in Israel
is going to look at this
as first Hamas is has been
dedicated to the destruction of Israel.
They proved
they're willing to go very far along,
which they are considered
an existential threat.
And if Israeli military
looked to the north
and they see Hezbollah
and they ask themselves
if Hamas gets away with this and survives
this, what will that say to Hezbollah?
And what can Hezbollah do on the north,
to Israel
if they decide
to follow the same tactics?
And so there's a lot riding on this.
But the Israeli military
has got to listen to political authority.
There's a lot of political pressure
coming from Washington
and also from the Israeli public.
Get those hostages free.
Then we'll worry about what happens next.
Hamas knows this.
Hamas is playing it like a fiddle.
They release hostages.
They're prepared to squeeze
if they don't get exactly what they want.
They want more food. They want more fuel.
They ultimately want global opinion, too,
and an Israeli opinion
to hold the Israeli military operations.
Hamas then emerges victorious.
There are heroes in the Islamic world,
or at least in the Palestinian view.
And this then gives them a major victory.
Israel maybe gets its people back.
Maybe not all of them.
And Israel shudders.
Israeli military shudders, thinking
what's going to happen next,
especially if Iran gets a nuclear weapon.
So if you think this truce is a net loss
for the IDF,
let me ask you plainly,
do you think the President Biden is wrong
in his suggestion that
this truce should be extended
at the end of the four days?
I think President Biden is
walking a narrow line.
On the one hand, our military
and the Israeli military know
what needs to be done with Hamas.
But it is ugly.
It's causing civilian casualties.
There is no way to go after a mosque
without inflicting a certain amount
of casualties
on civilians who are not Hamas.
And so this puts a lot of pressure
on the United States.
We've got other global objectives.
We're not solely dedicated to Israel.
We've got to worry about our relations
with allies, relationships in the region.
And our longer
objective, longer
term was to get the Saudis,
the Kuwaitis and others
in the region
aligned with Israel
so that we could end this issue.
So we've got the longer term
to think about.
It's a tough position for the president.
Got to get the American hostages out,
try to prevail on the Israelis
to limit the damage to civilians.
Ultimately, the Israelis have to decide,
are they going
after the destruction of Hamas
at all costs
or do they have to balance this
with their relationship with the West
and especially with the United States?
And is the destruction of Hamas
even an achievable goal?
The the political and military
angle of it may end, but the ideology,
could it come back?
Will it come back in some other name
or form? General Wesley Clark.
Thank you so much for being with us.